Project Instructions

All of the starting code and resources you'll need to compete this project are in a Github repo! Before you can get stared coding, you'll have to make sure that you have all the libraries and dependencies required to support this project.

Amazon Web Services

This project requires GPU acceleration to run efficiently. Please refer to the Udacity instructions for setting up a GPU instance for this project, and refer to the project instructions in the classroom for setup. link for AIND students

Local Environment Instructions

You should follow the AWS instructions in your classroom for best results.

Clone the repository, and navigate to the downloaded folder.
git clone https://github.com/udacity/AIND-CV-FacialKeypoints.git
cd AIND-CV-FacialKeypoints
Create (and activate) a new environment with Python 3.5 and the numpy package.

Linux or Mac:
conda create --name aind-cv python=3.5 numpy
source activate aind-cv
Windows:
conda create --name aind-cv python=3.5 numpy scipy
activate aind-cv
Install/Update TensorFlow (for this project, you may use CPU only).

Option 1: To install TensorFlow with GPU support, follow the guide to install the necessary NVIDIA software on your system. If you are using the Udacity AMI, you can skip this step and only need to install the tensorflow-gpu package:
pip install tensorflow-gpu==1.1.0
Option 2: To install TensorFlow with CPU support only:
pip install tensorflow==1.1.0
Install/Update Keras.

pip install keras -U
Switch Keras backend to TensorFlow.

Linux or Mac:
KERAS_BACKEND=tensorflow python -c "from keras import backend"
Windows:
set KERAS_BACKEND=tensorflow
python -c "from keras import backend"
Install a few required pip packages (including OpenCV).

pip install -r requirements.txt
Data

All of the data you'll need to train a neural network is in the AIND-CV-FacialKeypoints repo, in the subdirectory data. In this folder are a zipped training and test set of data.

Navigate to the data directory
cd data
Unzip the training and test data (in that same location). If you are in Windows, you can download this data and unzip it by double-clicking the zipped files. In Mac, you can use the terminal commands below.
unzip training.zip
unzip test.zip
You should be left with two .csv files of the same name. You may delete the zipped files.

Troubleshooting: If you are having trouble unzipping this data, you can download that same training and test data on Kaggle.

Now, with that data unzipped, you should have everything you need!

Notebook

Navigate back to the repo. (Also your source environment should still be activated at this point)
cd
cd AIND-CV-FacialKeypoints
Open the notebook and follow the instructions.
jupyter notebook CV_project.ipynb
NOTE: While some code has already been implemented to get you started, you will need to implement additional functionality to successfully answer all of the questions included in the notebook. Unless requested, do not modify code that has already been included.